---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---
# About Me
I'm a recent graduate from the University of Texas. I'm passionate about improving my programming skills and learning about the impact the technology we use daily has on our society. One day I hope to contribute solutions to many of the worlds problems, but first, I have to expand my toolset. 

I started this blog to provide important contextual background for  my projects. Context is a very necessary concept in sociology. It gives us the ability to interpret data. Below, I've written a little about my motivations, to provide my perspective for the forthcoming blog posts.

## Why Sociology and Computer Science?
	
Although I didn't always know what I wanted to do when I grew up (it took until my second year of college to find out). I was always obsessed with the idea of the renaissance man. I believe the modern renaissance man (or woman) increases their utility by synthesizing their interests creatively. To be on the cutting edge, I believed I needed to find a niche that interested me. This is a process described to me as hybridization. It's why I chose to study what I did, and why I believe we should strive to be modern renaissance people.

  In 2015 I took a class with professor Larry Speck at the University of Texas in which I was introduced to the theory of hybridization. The class substantiated the theory of hybridization by including various social scientist's and psychologist's theories that explain the benefits of interdisciplinary studies. In essence, the brain is divided into two distinct hemispheres. These hemispheres handle two separate aspects of thought. The left brain handles things like discipline, logic, and convergent thinking, while the right brain handles playfulness, imagination, and divergent thinking. The chief goal of learning should be to stimulate both hemispheres. While this definition may seem to assume the brain as separated, a successful person utilizes both sides of the brain. To this end, finding an interdisciplinary set of tasks that encourage both L-Directed and R-Directed thinking is optimal.

  <p><a href= "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mihaly_Csikszentmihalyi"> Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi</a> established the theory of "<a href= "https://www.amazon.com/Flow-Psychology-Experience-Perennial-Classics/dp/0061339202">flow.</a>" In essence, flow is the feeling of wholeness you have when solving problems at your utmost ability. It's a sense of purpose, or meaning. If you have ever gotten lost in work, in complete focus and confidence, you've experienced flow. During this period of flow, you were likely using both hemispheres of your brain; using logic and creativity to their fullest extent.</p>

  <p>An interesting example of the differences in hemispheric specialization involves dyslexia. There's a significant statistical correlation between dyslexia and being a millionaire. <a href = "http://www.ldonline.org/article/5665/"> A 2003 study found that of 300 millionaires who participated, over 40% were dyslexic.</a> Compare this to the estimated 5-10% of the average population who has dyslexia and we start to notice an important trend. This is not to say that if you have dyslexia, you will become a millionaire, but one proposed reason for this phenomenon involves the dyslexics' struggle with L-Directed thinking. Due to this struggle, they are often forced to compensate by <a href="https://blog.dyslexia.com/research-right-brain-strategies/">gaining increased R-directed capabilities</a>. These R-directed capabilities are often neglected in conventional education, meaning the dyslexic millionaires had created an advantage in R-directed capabilities because of their initial setback.</p>
  
  Thus, in teaching or learning, it's important to be cognizant of the way in which you are employing your mental faculties. Hybridization, or more specifically, the synergy of both a logical interest and a creative interest, provides a means of simultaneously strengthening each hemisphere of the brain.

Not only does hybridization train your brain more effectively, it theoretically differentiates you from your peers in the job market. Statistically speaking, it's unlikely anyone is ever going to be the best at what they do. By taking a more general approach, you are increasing your utility in a unique way and reducing the number of peers you'll compete with by shrinking the number of people who have the same skills as you. Alternatively, going too general will decrease your utility, as being a master of none will inevitably make you unskilled.

Although I genuinely enjoy both sociology and computer science, the theory of hybridization provided me with a functional justification for pursuing both interests. I hope, by diversifying in this way, I'll have better exposure in an ultra-competitive job market, and focus on unique topics not often pursued in either discipline. I also believe an increased importance on the societal implications of technology will better prepare humanity for the future. 

Now that you know why I consider this niche an important endeavor, I hope you'll have a newfound interest in the synthesis of sociology and computer science; or perhaps you will find an interesting synthesis of your own.