---
layout: post
title: Twitter - Social Network Analysis 2
featured-img: 9.1
---

### Table of Contents

##### Technical
1. [Breakdown](#chapter1)
2. [Results](#chapter2)
3. [The Hypothesis](#chapter3)
4. [Conclusion](#chapter4)

<a name="chapter1"></a>
# Breakdown

The data from this project took around 13 days to comb through 500 users. Much of that time was spent, however, in limbo. Unfortunately when hosting this project on an IaaS platform like Google's compute engine, the IP address from your queries would be indistinguishable from another platform user. 

Meaning if multiple people are querying Twitter's API from the same IP address at the same time, there's a high likelihood that those queries will get blocked. Unfortunately it was my only option, but there are a couple of ways you could solve this.

Perhaps the simplest and cheapest way, would be to invest in a [Raspberry Pi.](https://www.amazon.com/Raspberry-Pi-RASPBERRYPI3-MODB-1GB-Model-Motherboard/dp/B01CD5VC92) The programs execution isn't hardware intensive. For much of the project's runtime, the smallest possible VM's CPU (g1-small (1 vCPU, 1.7 GB memory)) was only executing at around .5% or less CPU with occasional blips when I would edit code. The only real limiting factor for running this project is a consistent network connection.

I excluded users who had more than 200 followers, in order to keep runtime down.

<a name = "chapter2"></a>
# Results
I used gephi to visualize the data. There were 5 graphs I excluded because they only had 0-10 followers with no mutuality.

{% include gallery.html %}

As you can tell, in general, mutuality is fairly low for each instance. I hypothesize that mutuality is low for bots in general, due to the nature in which their relationships form. Although all of the graphs are not confirmed bots, the list is allegedly based on accounts who auto-retweet. 

Often times, you can notice niches with accounts who have very little mutuality. In one notable instance (MUDERBYGOV's graph), the two connected auxiliary nodes were the same person based on profile bio and geo location. The geographic location matched the central node as well. It would be interesting to find out how often this is the case. That presents novel information, since there are no other ways to determine connected accounts.

In server_center's graph, the most closely connected node was a business account with similar technical interests.

<a name = "chapter3"></a>
# Hypothesis

While this certainly deserves further research, it's safe to say "organic" accounts would have a higher degree of mutuality than the ones studied in this project. When I say organic, it's important to note that I mean a network whose graph is more closely based on the user's social network in real life. It's just more likely for a friend group to intermingle than for it to remain as binary as one generated by a bot.

<iframe src="https://public.tableau.com/views/Twitter_bot_hist/Sheet1?:embed=y&:display_count=yes&publish=yes&:showVizHome=no"
 width="750" height="700"></iframe>

 As you can tell above, over 700 users out of the entirety of followers studied had no mutual connections with the root node. To further substantiate the idea that bots / inorganically formed accounts have more widely dispersed networks, we would need to study regular user's networks to compare. I hypothesize that there would be a lower number of nodes with no mutual connections.

<p align = "center"><a href="/assets/graphs.zip"> Here's the collected raw data</a></p> 

<a name="chapter4"></a>
# Conclusion

After gathering data, I think there are multiple directions that this project could be taken. For starters, knowing how to distinguish between "organic" users and inorganic users would allow us to cut down on the number of bots that successfully spoof a human.

Alternatively, knowing the differences between each network, we could use this data to more discreetly create bots.

So really, it's a double edged sword, but one that definitely warrants further study.